Welcome, everyone! Today, we'll dive into GenerativeAI. What is GenerativeAI? How is it created? What does it do well? What doesn't it do? Once we build an understanding for these questions, we'll then discuss modern applications of generative AI and ethical concerns in the field. This speech is narrated by OpenAI's 'whisper' model.
A little more about me, my first encounter with AI began with Google’s Deepmind AI project, which in 2016 demonstrated the incredible abilities of this emerging technology by defeating the most successful chess and GO players in the world.
Since then, I’ve studied data analytics; worked at an AI startup where I learned about how it’s created and productized; and worked on numerous personal projects powered by generative AI technology. 
My hope for today is to share with you what I’ve learned and empower you all to better leverage this powerful technology. It's use is only growing.
We'll start with understanding computer language. Imagine climbing a rock wall. Each hold represents a 0 or a 1. The entire route you climb is a sequence of these holds, just like how a computer processes binary code. The computer's native language is binary, a series of 0s and 1s, and it uses these to execute specific tasks based on predefined rules. Just like a climber follows a specific route, a computer follows exact instructions.
Human language is like a symphony. Each word, or even letter, is a note, and when everything combines, it creates a beautiful yet complex melody. However, this melody is often imprecise and full of nuances, making it difficult for binary systems to process. Even if a program can process human language instructions, it doesn't necessarily understand them. Recent improvement in LLMs are the best at processing human language instructions, but it still often makes mistakes. And if most computer programs can't even process human language, how did the few overcome this gap?
Let's break down how Large Language Models learn to process human language. Imagine training for a difficult climb. The first step is gathering all the information you can to prepare: what the route is, what you should train, what equipment you should bring. Similarly, to create a LLM you must gather millions of points of information from articles, books, and newspapers. The next step would be to train your body and mind to be strong enough for the project. In this way LLMs leverage supercomputers thousands of times more powerful than the average laptop in order to create their programs. Then, it conducts millions of tests on these data points, training using methods such as predictive analysis, sentiment analysis, and task execution. This process is methodical and reward/punishment-based, much like how you teach a dog its name.
Generative AI tools are built to solve a huge variety of tasks. The types we'll focus on mainly for this class are generating citations, keeping up with current events, avoiding content appropriation, and supporting ideation, visualization, and summarization. Each task is like a unique song that these tools have to learn individually and repeatedly in order to be proficient in them.
Now, let's look at the modern examples of generative AI. Each one is like each unique musical genre. Their process of creation is similar, but how it communicates and the user experience can be very different. Similarly, what sets apart different GenAI tools are the types of tasks they train for and the information used to train them. We'll compare the pros and cons, similarities, and differences of the main offers from OpenAI, Google, Meta, and Microsoft. [Meta Training data includes social media posts]
Lastly, we need to address the general ethical concerns about AI. This topic is similar to being mindful of the environment while climbing. There's a balance between enjoying the benefits and being considerate of the impact of your actions. Key issues to keep in mind include bias and fairness, privacy and surveillance, and accountability and transparency. Just as climbers must learn to respect nature while climbing outdoors, AI developers and users must consider the ethical implications of their work.
In conclusion, understanding the building blocks of computer and human languages, how AI learns to bridge the gap, and the ethical considerations involved, is crucial to sustainably adopting this powerful technology. Prompt Responsibly.